Dr. Heng Yu obtained his Ph.D. degree from the National University of Singapore (NUS) in 2012. Since his graduation, he has been working as a research scientist and a research fellow at the University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Germany and NUS, respectively. Prior to his appointment as an Associate Professor at UNNC, he was an Assistant Professor at the United Arab Emirates University in UAE, briefly as a Xinghai Associate Professor at Dalian Maritime University, and an Assistant Professor at UNNC CS. From 2014 to 2016, he served as a R&D director in a big data enterprise in Shenzhen, China.

His research interests focus on theory and practice in different abstraction levels of Embedded Systems Design, where many of his work have been published in premier journals and conferences in the field, such as IEEE Transactions on Computers (TC), IEEE TCAD, IEEE TVLSI, ACM TECS, ACM SIGDA DAC, DATE, ASPDAC, and so on. His papers won the best paper award in ACM CF’17, and the best paper nominations in FPT’13 and SAFECOMP’12. In 2021 and 2020, his supervised student won the champion and runner-up in the DAC System Design Contest (DAC-SDC’21, ’20) with energy/resource/performance superior designs of CNN-based object detection applications for drones.

He has been the PI/Co-PI for multiple National/Provincial/Municipal level grants from NSFC, MoHRSS, Zhejiang NSF, Ningbo S&T Bureau, Ningbo Finance Bureau, Abu Dhabi Dept. of Educaiton and Knowledge, etc. He served as the Associate Editor for IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems II: Express Briefs.

He is an IEEE Senior Member, ACM Member, and CCF Member. He is a Fellow of HEA, UK.
